docs: Add running tasks guide (#1626)
block/goose: documentation/docs/guides/running-tasks.md

---
sidebar_position: 7
---
# Running Tasks

When working with the Goose CLI, you can pass files and instructions to the `goose run` command to execute tasks and workflows. This could be a simple one-liner command or a complex set of instructions stored in a file.

## Basic Usage

The `goose run` command starts a new session, begins executing using any arguments provided and exits the session automatically once the task is complete. 

There are multiple ways to run tasks with Goose - see a list of `goose run` options [here](/docs/guides/goose-cli-commands.md#run-options):

### Text in the command
```bash
goose run -t "your instructions here"
```

> Using the `-t` flag, one is able to pass a text instruction directly to the command. This is great for quick, one-off commands. An example usage could be using in a CI/CD pipeline or running alongside other scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `-t` flag, one is able to pass a text instruction directly to the command. This is great for quick, one-off commands where you do not need an interactive session with Goose. The instructions will be executed, and the session will end. An example usage could be using in a CI/CD pipeline or running alongside other scripts.
```

> ### Using an instruction file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using an instruction file
```

removing colon from side menu

If you have a complex set of instructions or a workflow that you want to automate, you can store them in a file and pass it to the `goose run` command:

```bash

> goose run -i instructions.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
goose run -i instructions.md
```

```

Here's an example of an instruction file that runs a security audit on project dependencies:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```md
```

# Dependency Security Audit

1. Analyze project dependencies:
   - Check package.json and requirements.txt files
   - List all dependencies with versions
   - Identify outdated packages

2. Security check:
   - Run npm audit (for JavaScript packages)
   - Check for known vulnerabilities in Python packages
   - Identify dependencies with critical security issues

3. Create an upgrade plan:
   - List packages requiring immediate updates
   - Note breaking changes in latest versions
   - Estimate impact of required updates

Save findings in 'security_audit.md' with severity levels highlighted.
```

## Key Features

### Interactive Mode

If you don't want Goose to exit at the end of the task, you can pass the `s` flag to start an interactive session after processing your initial commands:

```bash

> goose run -i instructions.txt -s

Reviewer: is this a shortcut for `goose run --interactive`?

Author: Ah yes it is.

```

This is useful when you want to continue working with Goose after your initial commands are processed.

### Session Management

You can name and manage your sessions:

```bash
# Start a new named session
goose run -n my-project -t "initial instructions"

# Resume a previous session
goose run -n my-project -r
```

### Working with Extensions

> If you want to ensure specific extensions are available when running your task, you can pas this as arguments as well to the `goose run` command. This can be done using the `--with-extension` or `--with-builtin` flags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to ensure specific extensions are available when running your task, you can indicate this with arguments. This can be done using the `--with-extension` or `--with-builtin` flags:
```

```bash
# Use built-in extensions e.g developer and computercontroller extensions
goose run --with-builtin "developer,computercontroller" -t "your instructions"

> 

Reviewer: ```

```bash

Reviewer: making 2 separate code blocks so that either can be copied individually

# Use custom extensions
goose run --with-extension "ENV1=value1 custom-extension-args" -t "your instructions"
```

## Common Use Cases

### Running Script Files

Create an instruction file (e.g., `build-script.txt`):
```text
Check the current branch
Run the test suite
Build the documentation
```

Then run it:
```bash
goose run -i build-script.txt
```

### Quick Commands

For one-off commands, use the text option:
```bash

> goose run -t "Generate a test plan for the login feature"

Reviewer: this prints output then exits?

Author: I've updated to a better example. But yes, goose mostly prints what it's doing and then exits.

```

### Development Workflows

> Start a development session with specific extensions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a session with specific extensions:
```
